We got one more kind of cool thing.
This one luckily doesn't actually require,
I don't think any code for you to write.
I'm gonna talk about the React compiler,
which I haven't really been able to talk about,
but they've been talking about for a long time.
So React compiler is basically going to be
like free optimization for your code.
So in theory, it should make your code
either about the same to faster.
So it should be no worse and it could be a lot faster.
There are two hooks I didn't show you
and I did that intentionally,
one called use memo and use callback.
This allows you to tell a component is like,
you are too slow to render,
please don't render unless I tell you to render.
That seems like a good thing.
It's like, why don't I tell that to all of my components
that I know don't need to re-render themselves, right?
What's a good example of like our header,
no, it does change, right?
Because of this, our cart.length.
Pizza changes, model changes.
We have some sort of dino-system
in all of our components, don't we?
Yeah, so we wouldn't really be able
to do too, too much with it.
But imagine you had a table that you rendered
that had 5,000 things in it
and you really didn't want it to re-render
unless you like it had something to re-render.
Like it's not cheap to re-render that component.
You could use something called use memo to say,
this component, please don't re-render it
unless I tell you to.
Use callback is another variation of that.
So if you have performance problems,
one, wait until you have a real performance problem first,
then you can use use memo and use callback, right?
That's my strong advice for you
because once you introduce use memo and use callback,
your code gets harder to like reason about
because something will not update when you expect it to
and you're like, why is this not updating, right?
You'll change like some state or something like that
and it won't update the view
and you'll be like, why is this, right?
This has happened to me,
this is why I'm telling you about it.
So please don't use it until you actually
are solving a real problem
because otherwise you're making your life harder
for no reason.
React is really fast.
It's really good at making UIs
and they're just making it faster all the time.
So generally you can just trust it to be fast.
Okay, so why are we talking about this now
with React compiler?
Well, React compiler is actually gonna go
look at your code and say like,
this thing can't change in these circumstances.
So I am going to prematurely optimize this for them
and then it'll just handle all that stuff for you.
So it's gonna do some static analysis of your code
is like this particular branch of code,
this isn't gonna update,
I'm just gonna say this never updates
and then your code just gets faster.
So it's using basically use memo and use callback,
use memo particularly for you.
So I'm very for this,
like static analysis and all that kind of stuff
and they're saying like this code branch can update,
I think that's awesome.
This used to be known as React forget.
So if you ever hear React forget reference,
they're talking about the React compiler.
If for whatever reason it's trying to do something
where you can do and you don't want it to,
for whatever reason,
you can go at the top of the page
and you say use no memo
and it will not ever optimize that.
They request that if you have to do that
to please tell them because they wanna know why.
Because it shouldn't, right?
You should never have to use that.
They're saying that eventually they're going to eliminate
all cases of when that should happen.
So let's do something kind of fun.
You can run this in your own codebases today.
It only will mine Bitcoin for me.
I'm just kidding.
This is from the React team to see,
would this be useful to my codebase?
So we're just gonna run it in ours,
npx react-compiler-healthcheck at beta.
It might ask you, yeah, do you wanna install this?
You're gonna say yes.
And it's gonna run your codebase and it says,
hey, I was able to affect 12 of your 13 components.
I'm happily found strict mode and it says,
found no use of incompatible libraries.
So it turns out our codebase is a good use case
for React compiler.
So let's go put it in.
What they have said officially from the React core team
is like, this is safe to put in today on any codebase.
It should not like cause problems.
So for example, Blue Sky, which is like the new social app,
they went and put it on the Blue Sky app,
which is all open source, right?
Which is a massive React app.
And they run it on Blue Sky, which is pretty cool.
And it's already running obviously on Facebook.
So here's what I want you to do.
I want you to say npm install dash capital D
babel dash plugin dash React dash compiler at beta.
Again, if you're watching this in the future,
you might need to check any versions here
because it might've changed.
And then you gotta go ahead and throw
that good old dash dash force on there
because it's gonna get real mad about versions.
Cool, okay.
So now we have the compiler in here
and we're gonna have to do some extra configuration
on our Vite config.
So here with React, we have to give it an object.
Babel, which is an object.
You have to give it plugins, which is an array.
Then you have to give that another array.
Feel free to copy this because it's obscene.
Babel dash plugin dash React dash compiler.
We're gonna target 19.
I believe this does work technically on 18.
We're gonna put in 19
because that's what we're on, right?
React 19.
Okay, and then we're gonna say npm run dev.
Okay, and then we should be able to open our app.
And if everything went perfectly,
you should notice nothing.
The best kind of thing,
we put a ton of effort and nothing happened.
But let me show you what is actually happening.
Open your dev tools and open the React core dev tools
here, the components one.
Now see this like little memo magic?
This component has auto memoized by the React compiler.
So it's actually gonna go in here and show you,
it's like, I was able to memoize this for you.
So the header, I'm able to memoize this
and it's able to just like do a bunch of really cool stuff
that way, which is pretty cool.
I think it's awesome that they're actually able to show you
what actually is getting memoized by the React compiler.
So pretty cool stuff.
They've been talking about this for a long time.
I think they built it for Instagram, question mark.
That's, I'm actually not sure
of what they actually built it for,
but they've been running it in production
for a long time on Facebook.
So it's stable enough to give a shot to today.
And yeah, any questions about that?
And that can be used on previous versions of React,
not just React 19.
I think it's 17, 18 and 19, I think is what they said.
18 for sure, 17 you might need to go check.
If you're on 17, please get on 18.
I guess that's what I would say to that.
I left a link in here to Lauren Tan's talk from ReactConf.
Fun fact, I don't think I taught Lauren React
and I'm not going to claim that,
but she did attend one of my workshops at Netflix
where I taught my React workshop to a bunch of people.
So Lauren has been present during a time
that I was teaching React.
That is a fact that I can assert.
She's very smart.
So she is now the manager of the React team.
So you should watch her talk.
She's a great speaker and she talks a lot about it
at ReactConf this year.